Adding reader writer separation doc page (#9795)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _tuning-your-cluster/seperate-index-and-search-workloads.md

---
layout: default
title: Seperate index and search workloads
nav_order: 42
has_children: false
---

# Separate index and search workloads

In a remote store enabled cluster with a Segment Replication enabled index, you can segregate indexing and search workloads across different hardware by using the specialized `search` node role and provisioning corresponding search replicas in the index.

OpenSearch uses two types of replicas:

- **Write replicas**: Act as redundant copies of the primary shard. If a primary shard fails (for example, due to node drop or hardware issues), a write replica can be promoted as the new primary to ensure high availability for write operations.

> - **Search replicas**: Serve search queries exclusively. Search replicas cannot be promoted as primaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Search replicas**: Act for search queries exclusively. Search replicas cannot be promoted as primaries.
```

node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repository.type: s3
node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repository.settings.bucket: <Bucket Name 1>
node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repository.settings.base_path: <Bucket Base Path 1>
node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repository.settings.region: <Region>
```

For more information, see [Remote-backed storage]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/index/).

### Step 3: Add search replicas to an index

After configuring your nodes and the remote store, you need to set up search replicas for your indexes. Search replicas are copies of your index that are dedicated to handling search requests, allowing you to scale your search capacity independently of your indexing capacity.

By default, indexes created in a remote-store-enabled cluster use segment replication. For more information, see [Segment replication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/segment-replication/index/).

You can add search replicas for an index using the `number_of_search_replicas` setting (default is 0) in one the following ways.

#### Option 1: Create an index with search replicas

> Use this option when you're creating a new index and want to configure search replicas from the start. This approach is ideal for planning your workload separation strategy before indexing data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use this option when you're creating a new index and want to configure search replicas at the beginning of the process. This approach is ideal for planning your workload separation strategy before indexing data.
```

The following request restores an index from a snapshot with search replicas:

```json
POST /_snapshot/my-repository/my-snapshot/_restore
{ 
    "indices": "my-index", 
    "index_settings": { 
        "index.number_of_search_replicas": 2,
        "index.replication.type": "SEGMENT"
     } 
}'
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Additional configuration

After setting up basic workload separation, you can fine-tune your configuration to optimize performance and resource utilization. The following settings allow you to control search routing, automatically scale replicas, and manage write workloads based on your specific needs:

### Enforce cluster-level search request routing

When search replicas are enabled, all search traffic is routed to them by default. The following request enforces or relaxes this routing behavior:

```json
PUT /_cluster/settings
{ 
    "persistent": {
        "cluster.routing.search_replica.strict": "true"
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> - `true` (default): Route only to search replicas.

Reviewer 2: These bullet points appear to be floating (not connected to anything). Should they be introduced by a brief sentence ending in a colon?

Reviewer: I'll add that.

- `false`: Allow fallback to primary/write replicas if needed.

> ### Auto-scale search replicas

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Automatically scale search replicas
```

Use the `auto_expand_search_replicas` index setting to automatically scale search replicas based on the number of available search nodes in the cluster. For more information, see [Index settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index-settings/#dynamic-index-level-index-settings).

### Turn off write workloads

You can use the `_scale` API to turn off primary shards and write replicas if you don't expect any writes to an index. In write-once, read-many scenarios (like log analytics), you can scale down primary and write replicas, leaving only search replicas active to free up resources.

> The following request turns off writers:

Author: As @prudhvigodithi mentioned earlier do we need API example here or should we just give link to the API doc for _scale?

Reviewer: I think we can add the link once the scale PR gets merged in.

> The following request turns off writers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following [Scale] request turns off writers:
```

> The following [Scale]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/scale/) request turns off writer replicas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following [scale]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/scale/) request turns off write replicas:
```

```json
POST my_index/_scale 
{
   "search_only": true
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The following request turns on writer replicas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Scale request turns on writer replicas:
```

> The following Scale request turns on writer replicas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following scale request turns on write replicas:
```
